PROJECT: Nuclear Promise X - Testing Microsoft Search

GOAL: This project is to demonstrate my ability to design automated test cases.

ASSUMPTION:

1. Interviewer has already set up Playwright
2. Interviewer is familiar with BDD (Behaviorial-Driven-Development) and Gherkin language and understand the value of it.
3. Microsoft will not make any change to their website which may cause the test suite to break.
4. Interviewer is will be able to follow the step to install Cucumber.

TEST DESIGN: Playwrite & Typescript is integrated with BDD (Gherkin) Framework using Cucumber package to design the test cases using common business language. The Gherkin language calls the respective Typescript functions to execute the automated steps.

Terminal ----> Feature File (Gherkin) -----> Step File (Playwright/Typescript)

SCOPE:

1. Happy Path
   1.1 Test microsoft.com and learn.microsoft.com "Search" functionality
2. Edge Cases
   2.1 Testing "Search" with wildcards (e.g. \*, &)
   2.2 Internationalization Testing
   2.2.1 Testing "Search" with foreign Latin characters (e.g. character with accent)
   2.2.2 Testing "Search" with foreign non-Latin characters (e.g. Chinese charecters)
   2.3 Boundary Testing - testing "Search" with very long string

OUT-OF-SCOPE

1. Accessibility Testing (e.g. dark mode Vs light mode)
2. Aspect ratio - testing with different screen sizes and window sizes)
3. Browser testing - testing with multiple Browser. Only testing on Chrome.

SETUP INSTRUCTION (VS Code recommended):

1. Install Cucumber Extension for your respective IDE. For VS Code, go to Extensions in the left panel, search for Cucumber, and install.
2. Open the project directory (bdd-setup) on VS Code.
3. For VS Code on Macbook, go to Code>Settings>Settings>Extensions>Cucumber>Edit in Settings.json and add the following paths:
   "cucumber.features": [
   "src/tests/features/*.feature"
   ]
   "cucumber.glue": [
   "src/tests/step-definitions/*.ts"
   ]
4. Use terminal to execute "npm run cucumber" while in the directory.

FILES INCLUDED:

1. Project directory with all codes
2. Video proof of working test execution (in case the interviewer faces any challenge setting up the framework)
3. Automation report generated by Cucumber.

ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATIONS:
If I had more time and resources, I would:

1. Create additional validation steps to make the test suite more robust
2. Perform additional happy paths, down-time and error scenarios, and edge cases.
3. Create an additional layer of classes following Page Object Model.
4. Extend the testing to multiple devices, screen sizes, browsers, window sizes, and dark theme.

CONCLUSION:
I enjoyed working on this assignment where I am free to demonstrate my ability and hoping to make it to the next round.
